# An-AI-based-Tool-for-Prediction-of-Metabolism-by-Human-Skin-Microbiome
Work is under review for publication in a reputed peer-reviewed international 

## Abstract
<p align="justify"> Human skin microbiome is a complex community of more than 1000 microbial species that harbours a large reservoir of enzymes capable of metabolising numerous biotic and xenobiotic molecules. Due to the microbiome diversity and variability across individuals and populations, the experimental evaluation of the metabolic potential of skin microbial enzymes is challenging and tedious task. Therefore, in this work we constructed a comprehensive database of 1,094,153 metabolic enzymes belonging to 19 different skin sites from 897 pangenomes. Using this database and by integrating chemoinformatics, machine learning, and neural networks, a prediction tool named as “SkinBug” was developed that can predict all the possible metabolic reactions and associated enzymes, respective reaction centers, the skin microbiome species that harbours those enzymes, and the respective skin sites. To overcome the challenge that one molecule can undergo multiple types of reactions, a multiclass multilabel classification approach was used that produced a multilabel accuracy of up to 82.4% and binary accuracy of up to 90.0%, respectively. The hamming loss for the reaction class-specific model was 6.7% and average value for the reaction subclass-specific models was 5.7%. SkinBug was validated on selected molecules to which our skin is regularly exposed, and it correctly predicted the metabolic reactions known for these molecules from the previous experimental studies, and also predicted several novel metabolic reactions for the molecules that are potential leads for further studies. For the common environmental pollutant Benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) molecule, SkinBug predicted its oxidation by several species of skin microbiome. The oxidation and consequential carcinogenic effects of BaP are already known by human Cytochrome enzymes but its similar metabolism by skin microbiome is a novel prediction from SkinBug. Thus, we believe that SkinBug will be an indispensable tool for exploring the metabolic potential of skin microbiome, and will have applications in development of novel therapeutic approaches in dermatology, skin cancer research, and microbiome studies. The tool is freely available as a web server tool at http://metagenomics.iiserb.ac.in/skinbug.
</p>

## Access to tool, methods, and results
<p align="justify"> Complete article can be accessed at the journal website after publication. The tool can be accessed and used for making new predictions at http://metagenomics.iiserb.ac.in/skinbug </p>
